When using progress bar libraries in Python like tqdm or progressbar, if the progress bar consistently appears on a new line instead of updating on the same line, it is usually due to one of the following reasons:
1. Interference from print() statements or other output:
If you have print() statements or other functions that write to stdout within the loop where the progress bar is being updated, they will typically print a newline character, causing the progress bar to be redrawn on the next line.
Solution: Avoid printing directly to stdout within the progress bar loop. If you need to log messages, consider using a logging library or redirecting stdout and stderr as provided by some progress bar libraries (e.g., redirect_stdout=True in progressbar).
2. Incorrect configuration of the progress bar:
Some progress bar libraries have specific settings to control line breaks. For instance, in the progressbar library, the line_breaks argument can be explicitly set to False to prevent new lines.
Example (progressbar):
Python

    import progressbar
    import time

    bar = progressbar.ProgressBar(line_breaks=False)
    for i in bar(range(100)):
        time.sleep(0.01)
3. Multithreading or multiprocessing issues:
When using multiple threads or processes that each update a progress bar or write to stdout, it can lead to race conditions and interleaved output, resulting in progress bars appearing on new lines.
Solution: Implement a mechanism to synchronize output or manage multiple progress bars, such as using a queue to control which bar updates when, as demonstrated in some tqdm multithreading examples.
4. Terminal or environment limitations:
In certain environments or terminals, the way output is handled might not fully support the in-place updating of progress bars, forcing new lines. This is less common with modern terminals but can occur in specific setups.
In summary: The most common causes are print() statements or other output functions interfering with the progress bar's ability to overwrite the current line, or incorrect configuration of the progress bar library itself. Addressing these points will usually resolve the issue.